# Video 5: How to build a product 1

I started to watch the invaluable series of videos from the Startup School of Y-Combinator. Here I'm sharing some of the points in the discussion I found more interesting.  

This is based on their [<span class="underline">YouTube Playlist</span>](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQ-uHSnFig5MiLRb-l6yiCBGyqfVyVf17), which is the 2017 version. The most up-to-date info is in their official site [startupschool.org](https://www.startupschool.org/)  

Panel session with Reddit and Twitch founders Steve Huffman and Emmett Shear.

**Key points:**

  - Communicate with users. Particularly those who know the competitors and prefer the competitors over our product. They have a clear understanding of what they want.

  - Publish a crappy MVP and get feedback from real users, do not wait to get your MVP out there.

  - Metrics:

      - Reddit: Get a data tracking system that is easy to see. 1 dashboard that has it all.

      - Twitch: Do not put time developing your own at the beginning. Use google analytics or whatever is ready for that. Focus on a couple of metrics, you do not have to measure everything. Just focus on the key feature you want to measure.

  - Reflecting feedback and redesign:

      - Pay attention to feedback. Or you will be redesigning something users do not want.

      - Add features on top of what you have. One feature at a time. At the beginning you do not need to redesign all from scratch every time.

      - Use a third-party library if they exist.

  - Taking decision on what to change/improve:

      - Listen to users first and decide based on that. Do not do the opposite: Think of a nice feature or change and then look for user validation. This is a waste of time. Just go for what users want, they will tell you what to do.

  - Planning your journey:

      - Reddit: He seems to suggest using backcasting. Set a goal on how your startup should be 1 year ahead. Think of the milestones to achieve along the year to get there, and the metrics to follow for that. And do a periodic check-up to see if everything goes as planned. He suggested revising every 2 weeks.

  - Product/Market fit:

      - Twitch: Is organic. You will notice when you hit the fit, because the product starts growing fast (by number us users and features being developed).

      - Getting funding does not mean product/market fit\!
